   #B2B Marketing Blog - TopRank® » Social Media Links – How SEO and
   Social Work Together for Link Building Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate

   (BUTTON) Open side navigation TopRankMarketing logo
--

   B2B Marketing Search Marketing Social Media Marketing

Social Media Links – How SEO and Social Work Together for Link Building

   Posted on Jul 11th, 2012
   [Lee-Odden-360x360-1-150x150.jpg]
--

     * Blog
     * B2B Marketing
     * Social Media Links – How SEO and Social Work Together for Link
       Building

   In this article
--
   connecting consumers with brands for business.

   Here are 6 questions and answers on the fundamentals of using a social
   media focused approach for link attraction and acquisition.

   How do you define “social linking”?

   I don’t really use that term but I suppose social linking most often
   means using social media channels to promote content that inspires
   social shares with links. A Tweet, Facebook status update or Pinterest
   pin that includes a link to the content being promoted are all examples
   of social links. Social shares with links = social links.

   It’s worth considering that social channels are also used to promote
   content to communities that include bloggers and journalists who may
   notice and link to the promoted source. Those are not social links per
   se, but they are inspired from content promoted through social
   channels.

   The advancement of social media and SEO integration has created a shift
   from seeking links purely for the potential impact on better search
   visibility to a content focused approach which emphasizes the impact
   that promoted and optimized content can have at attracting traffic
   directly. Social links achieved as a result of promoted content are
   either an equal or a secondary objective.

   How do you define the key types of social links?

   I think social links have different characteristics and so the
   definition depends on what you’re after.

   One marketer might look at links within social shares and discern value
   based on nofollow vs. those that pass PageRank because of a primary
   focus on traditional SEO.  Another marketer might evaluate links based
   on how much traffic was sent in a particular time frame, additional
   levels of shares of the link and overall propagation because of a focus
   on awareness, branding and reach.

   Other basic social link characteristics or types might include:
     * Content shared on social channels that includes a link (temporal
       and permanent)
     * Links contained within feeds (RSS, fire hose, syndicated)
     * Links contained on social profile web pages
     * Clean links that pass PageRank
     * Nofollow or crawler “un friendly” links
     * Shortened links/URLs

--
   interact with the information.  People that are empowered to publish
   through blogging, commenting or other social content sharing may decide
   to act on content they’ve been exposed to through social channels in
   the form of a link to it.

   It’s completely up to the discretion of search engines to adhere to
   nofollow, or not. Search engine policies and terms of use are not
   something we can control, so approaching direct and indirect benefits
   from links within social channels should focus on the ability to affect
   a target audience first and foremost. Doing so in a search engine
   friendly way can make that effort even more effective.

   If nofollow social links are of little SEO value now, who’s to say
   search engines won’t value them in a different way that could be come a
   SEO or Social SEO asset in the future? If the links provide value to
   the influencers and followers we’re trying to reach and they act on
   those links in a meaningful, measurable way, then the most important
   objective is achieved.

   How much of an impact do you believe social linking is having on search
   engine algorithms for non-logged in and non-personalized users?

   The links contained in the millions of social shares that happen on a
   regular basis is too rich (in my opinion) for search engines to ignore
   completely. If content resonates with a community and they actively
   share that content at an accelerated rate, I can’t imagine why a search
--
   usage.

   It’s important not to forget the ancillary impact of social shares with
   links that surface interesting content to people who decide to create
   “follow” links from their blogs, in comments or from other content
   sources that are outside of social networks. That’s an example of
   social linking that can impact search, albeit, indirectly.

   How do you view the measurement of social links, versus traditional
   links?

   Social shares with links are important for driving traffic and creating
   awareness of content. The extent that they can be a signal for generic
   search or logged in search is a value too. The authority of authors
   that share the links, the rate and quantity of social shares and the
   topics associated with source and destination are all worth considering
   when evaluating social links.

   The reason why the link is created, the context, is as important as the
   distinction of social vs. traditional. A blogger might link to another
   web page or blog within an article that contains hundreds of words.  A
   link within a Tweet might only involve a handful of words. But that
   same link could be re-tweeted hundreds of times in a very short period
   of time. It’s less likely that hundreds of bloggers would write blog
   posts including hundreds of words within a similarly short period of
   time.

   The anchor text and page/domain authority of the source are important
   values for traditional links. The annotation (since there is no anchor
   text with a social link) and rate of link duplication/propagation are
   important values for a social link. I think there’s still value to the
   cumulative number of social links but not in the same way as
   traditional page-to-page links.

   Is there an ROI on social linking, or should marketers approach the
   same as link building, in the sense that it is known to be a key
   cornerstone for achieving higher visibility?

   I would evaluate based on determining whether social linking is
