
                             1.5.1 Access Networks

    Figure 1.5-1 shows the access networks' links highlighted in red.

                                [acc_phy.GIF]
                        Figure 1.5-1: Access networks
--
   the PC into analog format  for transmission over the analog phone
   line.  A modem in the ISP converts the analog signal back into digital
   form for input to the ISP router.  In this case, the "access network"
   is simply a point-to-point dialup link into an edge router.  The
   point-to-point link is your ordinary twisted-pair phone line. (We will
   discuss twisted pair later in this section.) Today's modem speeds allow
   dialup access at rates up to 56 Kbps.  However, due to the poor quality
   of twisted-pair line between many homes and ISPs, many users get an
--
   information.

   ADSL uses frequency division multiplexing, as described in the previous
   section. In particular, ADSL divides the communication link between the
   home the ISP into three non-overlapping frequency bands:

     * a high-speed downstream channel, in the 50 KHz to 1 MHz band;
--

   One important characteristic of the HFC is that it is a shared
   broadcast medium. In particular, every packet sent by the headend
   travels downstream on every link to every home; and every packet sent
   by a home travels on the upstream channel to the headend. For this
   reason, if several users are receiving different Internet videos on the
   downstream channel, actual rate at which each user receives its video
--
   CDPD does not provide for any protocols above the network layer.  From
   an Internet perspective, CDPD can be viewed as extending the Internet
   dialtone (i.e., the ability to transfer IP packets) across a wireless
   link between a mobile end system and an Internet router. An excellent
   introduction to CDPD is [Waung 98].

  1.5.2 Physical Media
--

   In order to define what is meant by a "physical medium,", let us
   reflect on the brief life of a bit. Consider a bit traveling from one
   end system, through a series of links and routers, to another end
   system. This poor bit gets transmitted many, many times! The source
   end-system first transmits the bit and shortly thereafter the first
   router in the series receives the bit; the first router then transmits
--

   But before we get into the characteristics of the various guided medium
   types, let us say a few words about their costs. The actual cost of the
   physical link (copper wire, fiber optic cable, etc.) is often
   relatively minor compared with the other networking costs. In
   particular, the labor cost associated with the installation of the
   physical link can be orders of magnitude higher than the cost of the
   material. For this reason, many builders install twisted pair, optical
   fiber, and coaxial cable to every room in a building. Even if only one
   medium is initially used, there is a good chance that another medium
--
   channels that operate at 10's of Kbps.  See  [Goodman 97] for a survey
   and discussion of the technology and products.

   A communication satellite links two or more earth-based microwave
   transmitter/receivers, known as ground stations. The satellite receives
   transmissions on one frequency band, regenerates the signal using a
   repeater (discussed below), and transmits the signal on another
--
   orbit at 36,000 kilometers above the Earth's surface. This huge
   distance between from ground station though satellite back to ground
   station introduces a substantial signal propagation delay of 250
   milliseconds. Nevertheless, satellites links are often used in
   telephone networks and in the backbone of the Internet.

   Low-altitude satellites are placed much closer to the Earth and do not
