
   Have you ever noticed that certain words on the Web look a little bit
   different? Whenever you see a word or phrase thatʼs underlined in blue,
   itʼs probably a hyperlink, or link for short. You might already know
   how links work, even if youʼve never thought about them much before.
   For example, try clicking the link below.

   Hey, Iʼm a link! Click me!

   Links are used to navigate the Web. When you click a link, it will take
   you to a different webpage. In the example below, weʼre clicking a link
   to learn more about the Cape Hatteras National Seashore.
   using links to navigate Wikipedia.org

   When you hover over a Wikipedia link, a preview of the linked site
   appears to give you more information. It is important to note that most
   web browsers show the linkʼs URL in the bottom-left
   corner of the window.
   viewing the link preview

   You may also notice that your cursor changes into a hand icon whenever
   you hover over a link.
   viewing the cursor as a hand icon

   If you see this icon, it means youʼve found a link. Youʼll find other
   types of links this way too. For example, many websites actually use
   images as links, so you can just click the image to navigate to another
   page. In the example below, weʼre clicking the picture of a coffee mug
   to open a page with more information about it.
   clicking an image formatted as a link

   Links donʼt always go to another website. In some cases, they allow you
   to download a file. When you click a link like this, the file will be
   downloaded to your computer. In the example below, weʼre downloading an
   installation file for a new application.
   downloading a file from a link

   As you can see, links are an important part of using the Web. They
   allow you to navigate between different webpages, download files, and
   do a whole lot more.
   Continue
--

   This website uses cookies to measure and analyze our traffic. For more
   information about the cookies we use, see our Terms of Use. If you want
   to change your decision later on, select the 'Cookie Policy' link in
   the footer.
   (BUTTON) Accept (BUTTON) Decline

