   Marketing tips
   6 min read

7 powerful SEO link building strategies

How to get backlinks that will boost your search rankings and help you build
your brand.
--

   Take a look through the backlink pages, pick the most powerful
   opportunities, and then reach out to those sites to see if they'd be
   willing to link to your site. Just one thing: before you reach out,
   check to see if you already have a backlink from those providers—if you
   do, acknowledge that before asking for another.

2. Use the broken link building strategy

   Broken link building is the process of finding backlinks that lead to
   404 pages on other sites, contacting those sites, and suggesting they
   replace the 404 link with the one leading to a similar page on your
   website. It's a great way to get backlinks while also offering value to
   the site giving you the backlink.

--
   404 errors showing on SEO SpyGlass

   These backlink providers are now your prospects. Visit the page the
   broken link comes from, see if you have a relevant page to replace it
   with, and if so, reach out to suggest the replacement. If it truly is
   relevant, they might use your link because it helps them eliminate a
   404 without having to take the time to find a good replacement.

Analyze the website you want backlinks from
--
   If there's a specific site you want backlinks from, you can analyze it
   to see if it has any relevant broken links. In my tool, WebSite
   Auditor, this information is presented in the Site Structure > Site
   Audit > Links > Broken links module.
   Analyzing broken links for a specific site

   Once again, if you have a relevant replacement, offer it up to the site
   owner. If you think it would be a valuable enough backlink, you could
--

   One last thing: be transparent with the people you're reaching out to.
   Don't make it sound like you're just trying to help them—be clear that
   the link you're suggesting they use is from your website, and that you
   think it would be a relevant replacement. The person making the
   decision is a real human who will see right through you if you try to
   hide that.
--
   update the Backlink Page Info for your website.
   Backlink page info on SEO SpyGlass

   The tool will recrawl the selected pages and tell you if some links got
   lost.
   Recrawl for missing backlinks on SEO SpyGlass

--
   Lost:
   The number of missing backlinks in SEO SpyGlass

   There are plenty of reasons your links may have disappeared:
     * The link may have been replaced by the site owner (link is
       missing).
     * The backlink page may be gone (page not found).
     * The website may be down at the moment (site is down).
--

   To restore a missing backlink, you'll need to contact the site owners
   and ask them for assistance. Depending on what the problem is, you
   might ask them to place your link on another page if the previous one
   has been removed, restore the backlink if it was deleted, or remove the
   noindex directives from their pages.

4. Build links with images

   Images grab attention and take up space, so it makes sense that people
   click on them. This is why it's worth creating images (infographics,
--

   But if you use images as backlinks, you want to be sure that the link
   points to the broader page the image lives on, not to the image
   directory. Image directory links (ending in .gif, .png, .jpg, etc.) are
   dead-end: all the traffic that goes there is just wasted.

   To see if any of your backlinks lead to image directories, set up
--
   formats.
   Searching for image directories

   If you find any, ask the site owner to replace the link with the one
   that leads to the page with the image. If you're letting them embed
   your image on their site, they should be ok linking to the right place.

--
5. Write guest posts

   Guest posting will boost your credibility and get your brand in front
   of a new audience, but if you can include a link to your website within
   the content, it's also a great SEO strategy. Take a look at this
   article on how to guest post for SEO for more details about how to find
   the right opportunities and get your guest posts published.
--
6. Get on "best of" lists

   Getting on "best of" lists is of course a great validation of your
   product or service, but it also puts a link to your site on a relevant,
   authoritative site.

   To find the lists you might be a fit for, use a tool like Online
--
   overdo it; otherwise, you may (accurately!) come off as spammy. The
   goal here is to share information you think will be helpful for the
   people in the community. They can choose to do with it what they
   want—and if you're lucky, they might want to link to you.

   If you join an online community, pay attention to what other community
   members post. If someone says they're going to write a blog post about
--

     * Hero image with an icon of a hyperlink
       Marketing tips
       What does link in bio mean? And how to make a link in bio page
       What does link in bio mean? And how to make...
     * A hero image with the logos for the best marketing podcasts
       Marketing tips
       The 10 best marketing podcasts to try in 2024
