
Creating an internet link

   You can add internet links to containers in Objective ECM. For example,
   during research on a team project you may have come across valuable
   information within a number of websites. You can add these website
   links to your team's folder.

   Internet links can be one of the following protocols:
     * http
     * https
     * mailto
     * ftp
     * a custom protocol.

   How to add an internet link Closed
    1. Find or go to the location where you wish to create the internet
       link.
    2. Select the Action button, then Create object .
--
       Content pane.
    3. Select Internet link.
    4. Enter a Name for the internet link.
    5. If you would like to create the internet link in a different
       container other than your Handy folder, select magnify or choose a
       recently used Container from the drop-down list
       On the Change container dialog box, there are a number of browse
--
    6. Select an object sub-Type from the drop-down list.
       By default the type is internet link.
    7. Enter or copy and paste the URL for the internet link.
    8. Optionally enter a Description for the internet link you are
       creating.

    9. Expand the Security settings section:
--
       Tip:  Select Back at any time to create a different object type if
       needed.

   How to update an internet link Closed
    1. Find the internet link you wish to update.
    2. Select More button for the internet link then Details to open its
       Details page.
    3. Update the internet link as needed.
       Its URL Closed
         1. Select edit in the top right-hand corner of the Internet link
            section to make the Internet link textbox editable.
         2. Edit the existing internet link URL.
            The internet link URL can be up to 2000 characters in length.
       Its name or description Closed
         1. Select edit in the top right-hand corner of the General
            section to make the Name and Description textboxes editable.
         2. Edit the existing internet link Name and/or Description.
       Its security settings Closed
         1. Select edit in the top right-hand corner of the Security
            settings section to make it editable.
         2. Edit the existing internet link Security classification and
            Caveats.
    4. When you have finished making changes to each section of the
       internet link details, select:
       • tick to accept and save your changes and exit edit mode.
       • close to discard your changes and exit edit mode.

