
   (BUTTON)

Why Have Social Media Links on Your Website?

   7 NovJay Kangin Website Design

Contents

     * What are Social Media Links?
     * Why are Social Media Links Important for Your Website?
     * How to Add Social Media Links To Your Website
     * Best Practices for Including Social Media Links on Your Website
     * In Conlusion

   If you’ve created a Facebook page or Twitter account for your business,
--
   media profiles on their website.


   Why is it important to add social media links on your website, and how
   do you go about adding these links? In this article, we explore all
   that, and more.


   Quick aside: just so we’re clear, we’re talking about social media
   links, not social media share links or sharing buttons. If you want to
   learn more about utilizing social media share links to promote your
   content, we’ll be sharing an article about this in future.


What are Social Media Links?


   Social media links are clickable icons or buttons that can be displayed
   on your website that direct your visitors to your various social media
   accounts.


   These links typically appear as icons representing popular social media
   platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, Pinterest,
   YouTube, and more.


   By integrating social media links on a website, you provide visitors
   with an easy and direct way to connect with you or your business on
   various social platforms.


Why are Social Media Links Important for Your Website?


   At the most basic level, adding social media links on your website
   helps you grow your followers. that aside, you’ll also be able to
   achieve other goals and objectives by featuring your social media
   accounts on your website. Read on to find out more!
--
   nurturing website visitors


   Now, adding social media links on your website is a great way to keep
   in touch with these consumers, and stay at the forefront of their
   consciousness.

--

3. Improve Search Rankings

   Interestingly enough, adding social media links for websites may
   increase your website’s visibility on search engines.


   Google has previously stated that companies should link to their
   Google+ page on their website because it “provides Google with
   information (...) to help determine the relevancy of your site to a
   user query on Google Search.”
--
   juice).


   That said, it’s simple to add social media links on your website, so if
   there’s even a small chance that this can improve your search rankings,
   why not go for it?


How to Add Social Media Links To Your Website


   Want to get your social media links up and running? Check out these
   guides for the various CMS platforms.


     * Add A Social Links Menu [WordPress]
     * Adding And Setting Up A Social Bar [Wix]
     * Add Social Icons [Weebly]
     * Add Social Media Buttons [Shopify]



Best Practices for Including Social Media Links on Your Website

1. Strategically Place the Icons

--

   social media icons

6. Open Links in a New Tab

   Configure the social media links to open in a new browser tab. This
   ensures that visitors can easily return to your website after visiting
   your social media profiles.

7. Link to Active Profiles

   Double-check that the social media links direct visitors to your
   current and active profiles.


--

10. Regularly Update Links

   Periodically review and update your social media links to ensure they
   remain current and relevant. It’s also important to add any new
   platforms you've joined and remove any obsolete ones.

--
In Conlusion


   Including social media links on your website is a fundamental step in
   building a robust online presence and expanding your reach to a broader
   audience.

