   Updated on October 24, 2017
   Everything You Need To Know About App Links

   Mobile App Links are a type of mobile URLs. They make it possible to
   link to specific pages or screens of an app. They also allow you to
   link your website pages to the respective screens in your app.

What do App Links do?


    They close the loop between the creation of content, its discovery
    and app downloads by creating unique links for different pages or
    screens of an app. Thus, App Links allow users to click links to view
    content directly in the app (if already downloaded), or download the
    app to view content present on any particular screen of the app.

--

   Nopes, you can only share the mobile App URLs with others. Since there
   is no such thing as an address bar for apps, it is not possible to type
   App Links in the address bar.

What theory is App Links based on?

   App Links is based on the principle of ‘Deep-linking‘, which involve
   linking to specific screens (pages) within apps and launching mobile
   apps via links.

Which platforms do App Links support?

   App url deeplinks is cross platform

   App Links are cross-platform and currently support iOS, Android and
   Windows Phones. However, they can also be extended to support other
   platforms.

Are App Links free?

   App Links are open source, so you can use them without paying for it.
   You can also change them to suit any platform or environment.

How do they work?

   They let you link from an app to specific screens within the same or a
   different app. In short, they work like URLs for websites.

   How App Links work

Example 1 – Linking to a screen in the same app

   If I have opened a Facebook page on my Facebook app, and if I want to
   share a link of that page (without visiting the Facebook website) from
   the app with my friend, then I will use its URL (App Link) and share it
   with my friend using the messages or chat window.

--

Linking Pinterest app from inside of a Facebook app

   Provided that some conditions are satisfied, you can link to a tweet in
   Twitter app from your Facebook app using App Links . The requirements
   are that both Facebook and Twitter need to have App Links enabled. Now,
   Facebook app has built-in App Links functionality, but Twitter has a
   different set of deeplinks as part of its feature called Twitter Cards.
   Since, not both the apps have App Links, it is not possible to link
   them.

   However, you can link an app like Pinterest (which supports App Links)
   with Facebook app. All you have to do is to go to a screen in
   Pinterest, copy the App Link (or URI), then open your Facebook app and
   paste it in your status update. Your friends who click on the link on a
   desktop will be shown download links for Pinterest app for platforms
   like iOS, Android or Windows Phone; however, they won’t being able to
   download the Pinterest app on their laptop. The friends who click on
   the link through a mobile device, will be directed to the image URL
   (regardless of the mobile platform) if they have the Pinterest app
   installed; if they don’t have the Pinterest app, they will be directed
   to the download link for that particular platform, clicking on which
   would take them to the image URL.

What is the minimum requirement for App Links to work?

   For App Links to work, the linking and the linked apps should have App
   Links enabled.

How to enable App Links for an app?

   App Links can be enabled for an app by defining customized Universal
   Resource Identifiers (URIs) for that app and adding specific tags in
   the codes of that app.

What are the different types of App links in the market?

   App Links is a name of a certain type of deeplinks which have been
   instituted by AppLinks.org. Some other companies have also developed
   links for apps, with a different set of features compared to App Links.
   They are as follows:

Cellogic Ltd’s Deeplink

   The Deeplink.me services help in making your app pages linkable through
   deeplinks,  just like App Links. The links build using deeplink.me
   function for app pages of an app on all platforms. They also offer
   translation rules for customized URIs, user engagement analytics, link
   fallbacks in the case of an emergency/failure and Twitter Card (see
--
Tapstream’s Deferred Links


    Links to a specific screen or a landing within an app through URIs,
    text ads or image ads. Clicking on the link or the ad takes users to
    the destination screen within the app. It does this in two ways

    1. If the user has the destination app installed, it directly takes
--
       as the app is getting installed it displays a message indicating
       that the user will be directed to the landing page.

   Onboarding Links by Tapstream

Users are directed to a particular screen on downloading an app for the first
time

   Tapstream’s Deferred Links are mainly for app marketing companies who
   intend to make use of Landing Pages within their apps to generate
   quality leads. The Deferred Links are paid, and have different price
   points.

Twitter’s App Cards

   Twitter’s App Cards
   One of the several different Twitter Cards, through App Cards you can
   tweet a link to any webpage on your website and Twitter will
   automatically display your tweet alongside an App Card. This App Card
   would show all the data regarding your app like screenshot, ratings,
   free or paid app, description and a link to its App Store depending on
   the mobile platform you prefer. For this to work, you should have the
   App Card enabled in your website and have specified your card type and
   app IDs for iOS and Android. Twitter App Card with detailed app
   information

Twitter App Card showing automatically embedded information about an app
whose download link was tweeted

   This App Card can also show links to specific pages within the app for
   the website, provided the app has deeplinking enabled.
   URX’s Omnilinks, Omnilinks.js and App Search
   Enabling Omnilinks and deeplink Analytics for an app
--
Analytics

   URX has developed two separate approaches for deeplinking within apps.
   Omnilinks helps users to link to specifc pages within the same or a
   different app. This approach is especially useful if a user doesn’t
   have an app installed, in which case the user is directed to the
   download link for the app on the platform-specific app store. And, if
   the user already has an app installed, he is directly taken to the
   specific screen within the app. This facility is extremely useful to
   marketers who intend to increase their app downloads by directing
--
   required. You just need to add ‘http://urx.io/’ before your URI to
   create omnilink.
   Requirement: For Omnilinks to work, an app must have deeplinks, without
   which the URX Omnilinks are to link between apps. Similarly, websites
   must have appropriate meta tags enabled to make it possible to link
   them to an app. URX’s Omnilinks support App Links tags, so if you App
   Links tags enabled, you just have to prepend the URX code to the URI.
   App Search: This feature allows apps to scour the content present on
   other apps and also link to the respective pages of that app.

Are all these different types of App Links (i.e deep links) cross-compatible?

   Unfortunately, only some of these compatible with each other (App Links
   and URX’s Omnilinks). The reason for that is, all the services are
--
Which companies have adopted AppLinks?

   Facebook, a partner in the AppLinks initiative, has implemented them
   across most of its features. App Links currently supports News Feed,
   pages, status updates and links shared by apps. Top mobile apps like
   Mailbox, Quip, and Spotify also have deeply integrated AppLinks.
   Some major companies have recently made their content available for
   linking. They are: Pinterest, Redfin, Goodreads, Edomondo, Hulu,
--
   Tumblr, EyeEm, Houzz, Flickr, Vevo, Vimeo, Rhapsody, Fancy.com, iHeart,
   Songkick, and DailyMotion.

Why are App Links a good investment of your time and resources?

   App Links are slightly complicated, and might take some time to
   implement and a little more to perfect, but they give you so many other
   things in return.
   First of all, they help you drive your app downloads, regardless of the
   platform, if visitors happen to stumble across the app download link.
   This will, in turn, also lead to an increase in paid app or ad revenue
   from your mobile app.
   f the familiarity and convenience that App Links provide. This also
   increase the visibility of your app, which unlike your website, stays
   hidden from the eyes of people most of the times.
   Most importantly, since not many companies have implemented App Links,
   they will also lend your app or website a novel factor. So, people will
   keep coming back or download the app just to experience something new.

How do I start implementing App Links from scratch?

   If you are implementing App Links for the first time, then use Facebook
   SDK to deeplink your mobile app. Facebook has provided comprehensive
   documentation along with how-tos (with screenshots) on how to implement
   App Links as well as all the special features. Also, using Facebook SDK
   would help you leverage your website’s social media presence to
   increase downloads of your app and thus generate revenue.

What are some new or additional features of App Links?

   Analytics
   App Links have inbuilt functionality to measure and analyse how they
   are being used with apps. They can track the clicks, the landing pages,
   time, date, frequency and other data to give you a comprehensive lists
   and graphs of analytics. Using these analytics, you can optimize the
   integration of App Links into your app to enrich the experience of
   users or generate revenue from your app. To set up Analytics for App
   Links you have include lines of code on Bolts SDK, which is found in
   Facebook SDK. Since there is no SDK to support Bolts SDK except that of
   Facebook, this functionality is difficult to implement with other
   services.
--

Issues, Problems, Worries and Difficulties:

     * The cross-platform compatibility of App Links also makes it a bit
       more complicated. There are three major mobile platforms (iOS,
       Android and Windows Phone) in the mobile app market. If you have
       the same app available on different platforms, you have to define
--
       an app, as app use much less real and are extremely simplistic in
       nature.
     * Linking to a screen from one app to a different app can also be
       really disruptive. For example, if I link from Facebook app to The
       Huffington Post and I used my Twitter account to log in to The
       Huffington Post, then I will be taken to the Twitter app first to
       login, after which I will redirected to The Huffington Post app. It
       is also possible that I might be directed to the download link for
       Twitter app even though it is already installed on my smartphone.
     * Most of the services listed here (excluding App Links) are not
       available to Windows Phone apps. So, there is still no way for App
       Links to deeplink to your Windows Phone app.

   PS: I have used ‘screen’ and ‘page’ interchangeably for an app. Both
   mean the same, a screen or a page within an app. Also, I have used App
   Links instead of the oft-used generic term for mobile app links i.e
   ‘deeplinks’ to make understanding this new concept simpler.

Have an App Idea?
