   A glass corridor between buildings offers a myriad of possibilities: it
   can join old and new structures, protect a historical building, bring
   together luxury home interiors, or effortlessly combine contemporary
   structures. For architects, a glass link provides both a practical and
   an aesthetic solution to elevate all kinds of projects.

   Given the effects of the coronavirus, with more people now working from
--
   listed buildings and this is where knowledge of glass links, and the
   various different uses for them, is essential.

   This article examines exactly what a glass link is, the different ways
   one might be used, and the benefits that a glass link between buildings
   can bring to a project.


--
   can provide so much scope for flexibility when it comes to enhancing a
   building. For those tasked with working on an historical or listed
   building, finding a glazing solution which meets regulations can be
   difficult – but a glass link could be the answer.

   By seamlessly and elegantly combining the old with the new in design,
   glass links can highlight the beauty of original structures, while
   providing a practical walkway or space between two buildings. Not only
   do they connect structures, but they can also be used as functional
   spaces in their own right, which expands the possibilities for any
--
Glass links: the details


   When it comes to the product details, glass links offer a whole host of
   benefits ranging from the practical to the aesthetic.

   Visually unobtrusive, glass links are elegantly and carefully designed
   to create a seamless ‘invisible’ effect, ensuring original aesthetics
   are preserved. They are intricately designed to ensure the frame is
   fixed to the original buildings in a precise way, which allows for
   versatility and movement between two buildings. Links can be small or
   large, simple or elaborate, and can be combined with moving or opening
   elements, for additional practical applications.

   A single glazed glass link will provide a fully weather-resistant
   glazed installation (albeit one which might not be the warmest space in
   the building!), whilst double or triple glazing will allow the glass
   linkway to become an integral part of the building’s structure:
--
   floor for maximum effect.


   Minimal footings are required, as a glass link can be fully sealed with
   silicone, whilst flashing will ensure there is no water penetration.
   Structural glass beams can be incorporated for integrity, and provide a
   robust yet minimal finish (more on this in the last section). Heat
--
   weather.


What kind of project does a glass link suit?


   Whether on a listed building as part of planning permission
   considerations, or on a modern new build as a bespoke design feature,
   different elements of high-specification structural glazing can be
   uniquely integrated to create beautiful links between spaces.

   Fixing methods can vary to suit each project’s requirements, with the
   option to secure all fixings into stonework wherever possible for a
   completely frameless look.

   Perhaps the most effective use of a glass link is in connecting old or
   listed buildings to new extensions. They work so well because, in many
   cases, heritage buildings just don’t have the space, structural
   integrity, or planning flexibility required to meet contemporary
--

   Adding an extension to an existing structure can often raise
   interesting challenges, particularly if the building is fragile. A
   glass link offers both an aesthetic division, and also a physical
   buffer between the varying architectural and construction standards
   between the two, while preserving original and historical integrity.

--

   Depending on the project you are specifying for, you might be
   considering the different ways you can create a sense of connection and
   cohesion. Glass links are the ideal solution for a range of
   architectural challenges, and will provide a tangible sense of luxury
   and uniqueness.

   For projects that require new designated walkways, a glass link is a
   fantastic addition. One of our favourite Cantifix projects, aptly named
   ‘Stepping Stone House’ , involved a beautiful outbuilding built on
   stilts over a lake, connected to the main house by a frameless glass
--



   For a truly unique architectural glass solution, a glass bridge link is
   undisputedly special. Another of our projects, Walkers Court, is the
   world’s first and only two-storey frameless glass bridge, using our
   first curved, sliding Pureglaze door. Forming part of the redevelopment
--



Glass links to introduce natural light

   In today’s modern world, we’ve become hugely dependent on artificial
   light – to the detriment of our physical and psychological health, and
--
   experience the benefits of natural light, as we simply aren’t getting
   enough of it.

   A glass link incorporates health-boosting natural light into your
   designs, and creates bright and open spaces. We’ve talked extensively
   about the health benefits of natural light and having a glass link can
   help to improve your physical and psychological health, and overall
   productivity.

--
   There are two options when it comes to fitting a roof onto a glass link
   – a glass roof, or a solid roof.

   Although fitting a glass roof onto a glass link might initially sound
   like a challenge, it isn’t so very different from any other structural
   glass roof design, so the technical details remain relatively similar.
   The main difference is that the roof will need to blend seamlessly with
   the glass link structure, particularly if aesthetics are the primary
   driver for this choice of installation..

   If the glass roof for the glazed link you are specifying is made up of
   multiple panels, then you may need to plan for internal supports below
   the structural silicone joints, between each glass unit. As a general
   rule, you’ll need internal support if the joints are over 1.3m. These
--
   security, these glass beams will be created using multiple layers of
   low iron glass.

   If you’re specifying a solid roof on a glass link design, then you will
   need to work alongside the glazing supplier and the builder to create
   the structure. A solid roof might not be as aesthetic as a glass roof,
   but it can offer privacy if there are overlooking properties.
--
Glass Links: final thoughts


   Glass links are a fantastic way to seamlessly connect the old with the
   new. As a material, glass is one of the most sympathetic and versatile
   materials to bring the old and new together in both traditional and
   modern architecture; it can give prominence to traditional features
   while creating contemporary spaces.


   Whether it’s a glass link corridor, or a small and discrete glass link,
   a ‘new-to-old’ design can create an almost invisible transition between
   structures. Linking old buildings with modern designs can present a
   challenge, but here at Cantifix, we take the time necessary to design
   the most suitable and beautiful installation possible.


   If you are looking to include a glass link on a client’s project, get
   in touch with us for help and guidance on the right solution for you.
   Our specialists can assist with any specification enquiries to maximise
   your project’s potential.
