
What is deep linking?

   Deep links are a type of link that send users directly to an app
   instead of a website or a store. They are used to send users straight
   to specific in-app locations, saving users the time and energy locating
   a particular page themselves – significantly improving the user
--

   Deep linking does this by specifying a custom URL scheme (iOS Universal
   Links) or an intent URL (on Android devices) that opens your app if
   it’s already installed. Deep links can also be set to direct users to
   specific events or pages, which could tie into campaigns that you may
   want to run.

Why are deep links important?

   Deep links produce a seamless user journey that reduces churn and
   increases the likelihood of an install. They let you make sophisticated
   campaigns while providing a better user experience, moving users onto
   your app in a single click.

   Deep links also create the opportunity for easier incentivization. It’s
   simple to persuade people to try a new experience when a potential
   prize or offer is sent to them via a retargeting campaign. For example,
   let’s say you have a music app and want to promote a new album, so you
   allocate budget to be spent on a popular website. However, you want the
   user to listen to the sample in-app, not just on the website (where
   they are only exposed to the album cover). Here you need a deep link to
   send them directly to the correct page in your app, offering a seamless
   user experience.

--

What are deferred deep links?

   Deep links are a smart way to drive conversions while offering a
   positive user experience, but what happens if the user is deep linked
   into an app they don’t have installed? This is when deferred deep links
   come in to play.

   If a user clicks on a deep link and doesn’t have the app installed,
   they can be deferred to the App Store instead. The genius of deferred
   deep linking is that when that user installs and opens up the app, they
   can still be sent to the in-app location where you initially wanted
--
Adjust Deeplink Generator

   Adjust made the Deeplink Generator with usability in mind, allowing you
   to create a deep link without any extra effort. The Deeplink Generator
   provides marketers with fully-formed deep link URLs that work for both
   App Links (Android) and Universal Links (iOS), greatly reducing the
   hassle of implementing deep links yourself.

   To use the tool, log in to your Adjust dashboard and open the Menu,
   where you’ll see the ‘Deeplink Generator’ as an option. Click to open,
--

   Have more questions on deep linking? We can help with our full deep
   linking guide, which covers the process and best practices. You can
   also read more about deep links with our official documentation, which
   shares detailed technical information on how our deep links work.

   Craving monthly app insights? Subscribe to our newsletter.

