
   WebAIM Training

                              Links and Hypertext
                            Link Text and Appearance

   You are here: Home > Articles > Links and Hypertext > Page 2: Link Text
   and Appearance

Article Contents

    1. Page 1: Introduction to Links and Hypertext
    2. Current page: Page 2: Link Text and Appearance
         1. Link Text
              1. Avoid uninformative link phrases
              2. Link length
              3. URLs as links
              4. Alternative text for images used as links
         2. Link Appearance
              1. Underlining
              2. Hover and focus effects
    3. Page 3: Hypertext Links

Link Text

Avoid uninformative link phrases

   Links are more useful when they make sense out of context. Authors
   should avoid non-informative link phrases such as:
     * click here
     * here
     * more
     * read more
     * link to [some link destination]
     * info

   In fact, the phrase "click here" is unnecessary, even if it precedes a
   more meaningful phrase. For example, a link that says "click here to
   access today's weather" can be shortened to "today's weather." In some
   cases it may make sense to precede a link phrase with "more" or "read
   more about," (e.g. "more about global warming"), but if these extra
   words can be avoided, it is probably best to avoid them (e.g. "global
   warming" may convey the same meaning as "more about global warming,"
--

Long links

   There is no maximum allowable length of link text. For practical
   purposes, the link needs to be long enough to convey the purpose of the
   link and no longer. Content authors have the freedom to give meaning to
   their content in the ways that make sense to them. Still, as a general
   rule, links should be as concise as possible without sacrificing
   meaning.

   Some authors make links out of entire sentences, paragraphs, or even
   multiple paragraphs. These long links are almost certainly unnecessary,
   and are user-unfriendly for screen reader users. Remember that blind
   users cannot visually skim through lengthy links. They must listen to
   the entire text. Some get frustrated with long link text and
   impatiently move on to the next link if they cannot understand the
   purpose of the link after the first few words. Although authors cannot
   control this behavior, they can control some sources of frustration.
   Short, concise links are less likely to frustrate screen reader users
   than long, imprecise links.

Short links

   Similarly, there is no minimum allowable length of link text, so long
   as the link is not empty (see below). In most cases, links should be
   words or phrases. In some instances, though, it may make sense to link
   a single character, letter of the alphabet, or numeral. For example, an
   alphabetical index may use each individual letter of the alphabet as a
   link.

   The danger in using single characters as links—or in using any sort of
   small link (such as a 10 pixel by 10 pixel graphic)—is that some users
   will have difficulty clicking on such a small area. Someone with
   cerebral palsy, for example, may be able to use the hands to manipulate
   a mouse, but may have difficulty with the precise movements and muscle
--
   issues by increasing the size of small links, increasing the font size
   of single character links, or making the target area larger by
   including whitespace (such as CSS padding) within small link.
   Additionally, small adjacent links should have adequate whitespace
   (such as link CSS margins) between them to minimize users inadvertently
   clicking the wrong link.

Empty links

   Links should never be empty. They must always contains text or images
   with alternative text. An empty link can be navigated to, but it does
   not present any content. This can be very confusing for keyboard and
   screen reader users.

--
   underscores, and other characters that make sense to scripts and
   databases but which make little or no sense to the average person. In
   most cases, it is better to use human-readable text instead of the URL.
   The human readable link Constructing Accessible Web Sites is more
   user-friendly than the link to purchase the book by the same title on
   Amazon.com, which consists of a 108-character link full of numbers,
   slashes, and text that is not very human-readable.
   (http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1590591488/qid=1116957951/sr=2-
   1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/103-5755258-8204633)

   Does this mean that URLs should never be used as links? No. If the URL
   is relatively short (such as a site's homepage), the URL may be used as
   the link text. The key is to be considerate of screen reader users who
   must listen to the longer, less intelligible URLs.

Alternative text for images used as links

   When images are used as links, the alternative text performs the
   function of link text. As with linked text, the alt text of linked
   images does not need to inform users that the link is a link, since
   this is already presented. The alternative text should convey the
   content of the image and the function of the link. In most cases, the
   content of the image and function of the link are the same, so this
   text can be very succinct (e.g, alt="Products"). In some cases, it may
   require more text (e.g., alt="Chart showing 10% sales increase over the
   last decade with link to more sales data.").
   Important

   Images that are the only thing within a link MUST have alternative
   text.

   If a linked image does not have alternative text, a screen reader may
--

Link Appearance

   Links should look like links, and nothing else should. Users may get
   frustrated if they try to click on textual phrases or graphics that
   look like links but are not. They will also be frustrated if they have
   to move their mouse all over the page trying to discover links that do
   not look like links.

Underlining

   Browsers underline hypertext links by default. It is possible to remove
   the underline using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), but this is a bad
   idea most of the time. Users are accustomed to seeing links underlined.
   In body text, they may or may not be able to figure out which text is
   linked if the underline convention is not used.

   Although users are accustomed to seeing links in the main content
   underlined, they are also accustomed to seeing tabs and main
   navigational features (oftentimes created as graphics rather than text)
   without underlining. In these cases, the linked items should be
--
   an action.
   Note

   WCAG 2.0 has 2 additional requirements for body text links that are not
   underlined by default:
    1. The link text must have a 3:1 contrast ratio from the surrounding
       non-link text.
    2. The link must present a "non-color designator" (typically the
       introduction of the underline) on both mouse hover and keyboard
       focus.

   These two requirements help ensure that all users can differentiate
   links from non-link text, even if they have low vision, color
   deficiency, or have overridden page colors.

Hover and focus effects
