   #Digital Lab » Feed Digital Lab » Comments Feed Digital Lab » Social
   Links Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   Skip to the content

--
   social media content strategy in collaboration with the Digital
   Strategy & Training team and Mission Website Platforms (MWP).

   Social Links was launched on April 1, 2021 and received valuable
   feedback during the initial 30-day pilot. We are happy to announce that
   Social Links is now available for all Missions to use!
   Social Links Promo Video

What is Social Links?

   Social Links is a tool developed and owned by the Department of State
   that enables Department social media practitioners and content managers
   to provide their audiences with a secure way to view promoted content.
   Social Links enhances content strategy in a similar way as other
   popular tools on the market, such as Link in Bio or Linktree. The
   Social Links URL is placed in an Instagram account bio to drive traffic
   towards calls to action, downstream web properties and valuable content
   that your Mission wants to promote.
   Social Links grid view Social Links grid viewSocial Links list view
   Social Links list viewMockup psd created by syifa5610 – www.freepik.com

   LAB designed the first iteration of Social Links with Missions in mind
   by tailoring features to fit the specific needs of staff in the field
   based on real user feedback. It was designed as a plugin for WordPress
   and is already installed on the Mission Website Platform administrative
   site. It can be activated on your site by request and Social Link pages
   are hosted as part of your existing Mission website.

Why Use Social Links?
--
   Third-party platforms, like LinkTree, are not FedRAMP approved, which
   focuses on the security and protection of sensitive federal information
   within cloud technologies. By creating a State Department-owned version
   of these tools, Social Links is able provide valuable benefits specific
   to the Department’s unique needs. They include:
     * Security: Using a third-party platform that is not FedRAMP approved
       poses security risks to the Department. Since Social Links is
       installed on the Mission Website Platform, it inherits the security
       standards already in place on your current website.
     * Branding: Social Links provides cohesive branding through two style
       templates that match both the legacy Mission websites as well as
       the new redesigned sites launched this year.
     * Traffic: Using a third-party platform sends valuable traffic away
       from DOS web properties but because Social Links is hosted on your
       Mission website, all initial web traffic stays within DOS
       properties. Since Google Analytics is already in use for your
       Mission website, you have access to powerful analytics for Social
       Links as well.
     * Access: Mission staff can easily access and manage Social Links
       through your Mission website administration site.

Requesting Social Links

   To request activation of a new Social Links page, please work with your
   MWP Web Manager to complete this form.

   The form will request the following information:
--
     * Mission website URL
     * Which version of MWP you’re on (2021 redesign or legacy)
     * Preferred format (grid or list)
     * Links to other social properties, like Instagram, Facebook, etc.
     * Preferred URL for your Social Links page (Example:
       https://do.usembassy.gov/embajadausaenrd/ )

     * Users that will need access to manage your Social Links page (Note:
       users that are not approved MWP users will need to complete an
       extra step requiring management approval to authorize site access;
       users must also have an america.gov account)
--

Contact & Support

   For support requests for active Social Links pages, please reach out to
   the MWP Help Desk at [email protected].

   For product questions regarding Social Links, please reach out to the
