
Link

   A link (short for hyperlink) is an HTML object that allows you to jump
   to a new location when you click or tap it. Links are found on almost
   every webpage and provide a simple means of navigating between pages on
   the web.

   Links can be attached to text, images, or other HTML elements. Most
   text links are blue since that is the standard color web browsers use
   to display links. However, links can be any color since the style of
   the link text may be customized using HTML or CSS styles. In the early
   days of the web, links were underlined by default. Today, underlining
   links is less common.

   When a link is applied to an image, the link tag encapsulates, or
   surrounds the image tag. Since the image tag is nested inside the link
   tag, the image itself becomes a link. This method can be used to apply
   links to other elements such as <div> and <span> objects. However,
   since CSS can be used to stylize a link, an <a> tag with a CSS class or
   ID attribute is often used in place of a <div> or <span> tag.

--

Relative and Absolute Links

   The first link above is a "relative link" because it does not include
   the domain name. Instead, the link is relative to the current website.
   Any internal link on TechTerms.com, for example, does not need
   "https://techterms.com/" in the source. Rather, a relative link like
   "/definition/computer" is all that is required. Since the link starts
   with a forward slash, the path begins with the root directory. If a
   relative link does not start with a forward slash, the path is relative
   to the current URL.

   The second link above is an absolute link because it includes the
   domain name. Absolute links are required for external links, which
   direct you to another website. They may begin with "http" or "https."
   Absolute links may also begin with two forward slashes ("//"). This is
   interpreted as "http://" for pages served via HTTP and "https://" for
   pages served via HTTPS.

--

Link Images

   A paragraph with two text links A paragraph with two text links An
   image link and a green text link An image link and a green text link

The Tech Terms Computer Dictionary

   The definition of Link on this page is an original definition written
   by the TechTerms.com team. If you would like to reference this page or
   cite this definition, please use the green citation links above.

   The goal of TechTerms.com is to explain computer terminology in a way
   that is easy to understand. We strive for simplicity and accuracy with
--
   Subscribe

   You can unsubscribe or change your frequency setting at any time using
   the links available in each email.
   Questions? Please contact us.

Thank You
