
   NETGEAR Support

What are link aggregation and LACP and how can I use them in my network?

   Was this article helpful?   Yes     No | 11 people found this helpful
   in last 30 days

What is link aggregation?

   Link aggregation allows you to combine multiple Ethernet links into a
   single logical link between two networked devices.

   Link aggregation is sometimes called by other names:
     * Ethernet bonding
     * Ethernet teaming
     * Link bonding
     * Link bundling
     * Link teaming
     * Network interface controller (NIC) bonding
     * NIC teaming
     * Port aggregation
--
   another switch, a server, a network attached storage (NAS) device, or a
   multi-port access point.

   Network devices and management functions treat the link aggregation
   group (LAG) of multiple Ethernet connections as a single link. For
   example, you can include a LAG in a virtual local area network (VLAN).
   You can also configure more than one LAG on the same switch, or add
   more than two Ethernet links to the same LAG (the maximum number of
   links per LAG depends on your device).

   Some network devices support Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP),
   which helps to prevent errors in the link aggregation setup process.

   Unmanaged switches do not support link aggregation.


What are the benefits of link aggregation?

   Link aggregation offers the following benefits:
     * Increased reliability and availability. If one of the physical
       links in the LAG goes down, traffic is dynamically and
       transparently reassigned to one of the other physical links.
     * Better use of physical resources. Traffic can be load-balanced
       across the physical links.
     * Increased bandwidth. The aggregated physical links deliver higher
       bandwidth than each individual link.
     * Cost effectiveness. A physical network upgrade can be expensive,
       especially if it requires new cable runs. Link aggregation
       increases bandwidth without requiring new equipment.


What are the different types of LAGs?

   The two primary types of LAGs are static (also known as manual) and
   dynamic. Dynamic LAGs use Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) to
   negotiate settings between the two connected devices.

   Some devices support static LAGs, but do not support dynamic LAGs with
--
   supports LACP.

   Linux-based devices, such as NETGEAR ReadyNAS storage devices, often
   offer several additional types of link aggregation that provide
   increased fault tolerance or load balancing instead of increased
   bandwidth.


What is Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP)?

   Link Aggregation Control Protocol is an IEEE standard defined in IEEE
   802.3ad. LACP lets devices send Link Aggregation Control Protocol Data
   Units (LACPDUs) to each other to establish a link aggregation
   connection. You still need to configure the LAG on each device, but
   LACP helps prevent one of the most common problems that can occur
   during the process of setting up link aggregation: misconfigured LAG
   settings. If the devices detect that they cannot establish a link
   aggregation connection, they do not try to establish it, and the link
   shows as “down” in the admin interface.

   Another useful feature of LACP is that when one member link stops
   sending LACPDUs (if the cable is unplugged, for example), it is removed
   from the LAG. This helps to minimize packet loss.

--
   both devices support LACP.


How do I set up link aggregation in my network?

   The following instructions describe in general terms how to set up link
   aggregation between two devices in your network. For more information
   about setting up link aggregation on specific NETGEAR devices, see the
   NETGEAR product support page for your product. To find your product’s
   support page, visit https://www.netgear.com/support/ and enter your
   product model number in the search box.

   To set up link aggregation between two devices in your network:
    1. Make sure that both devices support link aggregation.
    2. Configure the LAG on each of the two devices.
    3. Make sure that the LAG that you create on each device has the same
       settings for port speed, duplex mode, flow control, and MTU size
--
       the LAG on each device.
    7. Verify that the port LED for each connected port on each NETGEAR
       switch is blinking green.
    8. Verify in the admin interface for each device that the link is UP.

   Last Updated:03/11/2023 | Article ID: 000051185

