   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NWD8HB5

     * go to the section header
     * go to the section footer

   (BUTTON) Menu Open menu
   Przejdź do strony głównej en
   ZBP Logo
   Związek Banków Polskich
   (BUTTON) en Ikona przycisku wyszukiwania Search en Wyszukiwarka
   ____________________
     * (BUTTON) A A A en Domyślna czcionka
     * (BUTTON) en Ikona przycisku zmiany styli strony en Przełącz na
       wersję kontrastow

   PL

     * General information
     * Management Board
     * European Banking Federation
     * Contact

     * General information

   General information
   (BUTTON) Przycisk drukowania strony Ikona przycisku do druku

Polish Bank Association (ZBP)

   Self-government organization of banks, established in 1991, founded on
   the  Chambers of Commerce Charter. Membership in the ZBP is voluntary
   and open for all  banks created under the Polish law as well as for
   foreign credit institutions branches  operating  in the Republic of
   Poland.
     __________________________________________________________________

Press release of the Polish Bank Association to the CJEU judgment in case
C-520/21

   In today's judgment, the Court has found that Directive 93/13 does not
   directly regulate the consequences of the invalidity of a contract
   concluded between an entrepreneur and a consumer once the unfair terms
   have been removed.
   It is for the Member States and the national law to determine the
   consequences of such a statement. However, the rules adopted in that
   regard must comply with EU law and, in particular, with the objectives
   of the Directive.
   The Court has specified that this compliance depends on whether
   national rules, firstly, allow to restore the legal and factual
   position of the consumer, in which they would be in the absence of the
   invalidated contract and secondly, do not put into jeopardy the
   realisation of dissuasive effect set out in the Directive.
   As regards consumer claims, the CJEU has referred to the national law.
   It has emphasized that it is for the referring national court to
   assess, in the light of all the circumstances of the dispute, whether
   the allowance of consumer claims complies with the principle of
   proportionality, which is a general principle of the EU law.
   In the opinion of the Polish Bank Association, the consumer does not
   provide any service for the bank. When repaying the installments, the
   borrower merely returns to the bank funds previously granted by the
   bank. Therefore, the consumer may not claim from the bank any damages
   that go beyond the reimbursement of installments.
   With regard to banks' claims, the Court has pointed out that the
   Directive precludes banks from being entitled to demand from the
   consumer for any compensation beyond the return of the principal paid
   out and the payment of statutory interest for late payment, if such
   would lead to "obtaining compensation for loss of profit which they
   intended to obtain from that contract”. Indicating the need to return
   the principal, the Court has not specified whether it means its actual
   or nominal value, which is a particularly important question in the
   light of high inflation.
   In the opinion of the Polish Bank Association, the judgment contains
   inconsistencies. On one hand, the Court repeatedly underlines that
   efforts should be made to restore the legal and factual situation in
   which the consumer would be in the absence of the unfair term. On the
   other, it accepts a situation in which the consumer would obtain free
   of charge funds, for which the property has been purchased.
   We will prepare a detailed analysis of the given CJEU judgment shortly.
   We conclude that it does not share (wrongly, in our opinion) the
   position of the banking sector in Poland.
   Prepared by: Legal and Legislative Department of the Polish Bank
   Association
   Warsaw, 15th June 2023

Polish Bank Association appoints the new president

   The new Management Board and the Council of the Polish Bank Association
   has been today appointed by the General Assembly of the Association.
   has appointed a new Management Board and Council of the Association.
   Dr. Tadeusz Białek - former Vice President, - was appointed the
   President of the Association. In addition, Agnieszka Wachnicka,
   Włodzimierz Kicinski and Bartosz Kublik were appointed to the Board,
   for a three-year term.
   The General Assembly also appointed members of the Council of the
   Association for the new term. new Association Council.
   The former President of the Association, Krzysztof Pietraszkiewicz, who
   has led the organization as President since 2003 (and as Director
   General beforehand), has concluded his more than 30-year mission at the
   PBA. In the banking sector, he co-founded such institutions as the
   Krajowa Izba Rozliczeniowa S.A. (the clearing house), Biuro Informacji
   Kredytowej S.A. (credit worthiness office) and Biuro Informacji
   Gospodarczej InfoMonitor S.A., among others. He co-initiated the
   establishment of the Cashless Poland Foundation (2017), as well as a
   number of other initiatives for the benefit of the banking sector and
   its clients. Involved in numerous projects of cooperation between the
   banking sector and the scientific community.
   Tadeusz Białek, in thanking the outgoing President, stressed that he
   takes over the leadership of the Association at an extremely difficult
   time. He also underlined that the Association has been one of the most
   important stakeholders on the financial and banking market over the
   last 30 years also thanks to Mr Pietraszkiewicz’s effort.
   The newly elected President of the PBA when addressing the General
   Assembly pointed out that the current conditions of bank operations in
   Poland involve numerous challenges facing the banking sector. Among the
   most important challenges, he said, are the process of reforming the
   benchmark index (introducing a new WIRON index to replace WIBOR),
   resolving the problem of foreign currency loans, the current
   difficulties in financing the housing market as a result of inflation
   and high interest rates, the disproportionately high burden on the
   banking sector and the introduction of numerous regulations undermining
   the banking sector's ability to finance the economy (such as statutory
   credit moratorium (so-called “credit holidays”)).
   The new Management Board of the Polish Bank Association shall from
   today constitute of 4 members.

Management Board of PBA

   Image
   Tadeusz Białek President

   Doctor of legal sciences, legal counsel, graduate of law at the
   University of Warsaw and Doctoral Studies at the Institute of Legal
   Studies of the Polish Academy of Sciences

   He is associated with the banking sector since 2003. From 2010 to 2020
   he served as Director of the Legal and Legislative Team of the Polish
   Bank Association. Vice President of the Polish Bank Association since
   2020. Chairman of the Steering Committee of the National Working Group
   on Reference Indicator Reform. Chairman of the Committee on Cyber
   Security of Banks. He has held numerous positions representing the
   banking sector at the national and European level, also within the
   European Banking Federation. He has participated in legislative work on
   numerous pieces of legislation in financial market regulations.
   Arbitrator of the Court of Arbitration at the Financial Supervisory
   Council.
   (BUTTON)
   Image
   Agnieszka Wachnicka Vice President

   She graduated from the Warsaw School of Economics with a degree in
   Finance and Banking and Postgraduate Studies in Real Estate Valuation.

   From 2015 to 2018, she was with the Office of the Financial Ombudsman,
   where she headed the Banking and Capital Market Client Division.
   Earlier for 12 years she worked at the Ministry of Finance, leading
   legal works on financial markets regulations, especially in banking
   sector. In 2013-2015, she served on the Supervisory Board of Bank
   Gospodarstwa Krajowego (Polish development bank). From 2018 to 2023,
   she has been the President of the Board of Directors of the Foundation
   for Financial Market Development.
   (BUTTON)
   Image
   Włodzimierz Kiciński Vice President

   He has been involved in the banking sector since 1995.

   He began his career as director of the foreign department at the
   National Bank of Poland and participated in Poland's negotiations with
   the London Club and the Paris Club on debt relief. From 2002 to 2011,
   he served as the President of the Management Board of Nordea Bank
   Polska. During this time, he also served on the governing bodies of the
   Polish Bank Association. In 2012, he assumed the position of Vice
   President of Finance at KGHM Polska Miedź. Since 2017 he’s been serving
   as Vice President of Polish Bank Association.
   (BUTTON)
   Image
   Bartosz Kublik Vice President

   He has been involved in banking sector since 2003.

   Since 2009 he has been a Vice President of the Management Board of the
   Cooperative Bank in Ostrów Mazowiecka, and then the President of the
   Board. As of 2014 – Member of the Council of the Polish Bank
   Association (and also the President of the Council) and the Chairman of
   the Cooperative Banks Section within the Polish Bank Association. He
   actively participated in the creation of the national groups of
   cooperative banks. He’s an author of numerous publications on economy
   and banking system.
   (BUTTON)

Banking Sector's Appeal

   7.07.2022

   In view of the challenges faced by Poles and the Polish economy,
   bearing in mind the highly negative effects of the so-called mortgage
   credits “repayment holiday” legislation, the banking sector appeals to
   representatives of all political groups, representing all levels of
   state power, not to take measures that undermine the banking sector’s
   ability to support Polish businesses and their customers, as well as
   local government units.
   Despite the Senate committee’s request for a solution that is not
   unfair and pro-inflationary, the law has not been amended in this
   regard and still raises concerns and involves risks to financial
   stability.
   Therefore, we appeal to the government to seek solutions that:
   –    will limit the assistance to only those in financial distress –
   because, according to the Prime Minister’s public announcement, the
   repayment holiday was to be limited to borrowers having difficulty in
   pinning down their household budgets, and were passed by the Parliament
   as a universal solution, available to all borrowers;
   –    will stop social injustice – because, according to the current
   form of the law, the assistance solutions could benefit people who do
   not need support at all in repaying their mortgages, and the cost of
   financing this assistance would be shifted entirely to depositors and
   other bank’s customers;
   –    will allow to combat inflation – because the solutions being
   processed in the Parliament contradict the National Bank of Poland’s
   anti-inflationary policy aimed at, among other things, limiting the
   amount of money in the economy;
   –    will not undermine the stability and credibility of the Polish
   banking system – because the repayment holiday legislation in its
   current form will mean an unprecedented burden on the banking sector,
   estimated by the National Bank of Poland at up to PLN 20 billion, which
   will push some banks into very bad shape and make it impossible for the
   sector to continue financing the Polish economy.
   The appeal is deeply justified by the social sentiments. According to
   public opinion polls, as many as 66% of Poles support the introduction
   of an income criterion in the Repayment Holiday Law in order to provide
   assistance only to people in distress. In contrast, 57% of respondents
   are concerned that repayment holiday will increase inflation 1.
   Existing forms of support for borrowers
   The banking sector has had a package of solutions that effectively
   support borrowers in financial distress. The primary instrument of
   assistance is the Borrower Support Fund, aimed at borrowers with actual
   difficulties in repaying their mortgages. The banking sector invariably
   declares further readiness to improve this instrument, while at the
   same time hoping that the government will stop solutions that are
   socially unjust and detrimental to the banking sector, as well as the
   entire Polish economy.
   It is also possible to use other solutions provided, among others, in
   the Banking Law and concerning, for example, changes in the terms or
   dates of loan repayment specified in the agreement. This is an
   instrument available to borrowers whose assessment of the financial or
   economic standing actually indicates the need for repayment relief.
   The full statement can be found here
     __________________________________________________________________


Polish Banks’ actions towards refugees from Ukraine

   1.04.2022

   Since the beginning of the Russian aggression against Ukraine, the
   banks operating in Poland have been trying to make it easier for the
   newcomers from Ukraine to function in their new reality. Lots of banks
   quickly responded to the needs of refugees directly and also prepared
   Ukrainian language version of their websites and document templates
   while simplifying procedures for setting up accounts and resigning from
   fees for their maintenance, issuance and running a payment card, ATM
   withdrawals or transfers to Ukraine. These actions will be continually
   adjusted.
   Due to the Russian aggression against Ukraine, 2.34 million refugees
   have been sent to Poland since February 24. The wave war-induced
   migration is considered to be the fastest growing humanitarian crisis
   in Europe since the end of World War II, nonetheless help for Ukrainian
   citizens seeking shelters in Poland flows from almost every side.
   After the conflict broke out, the banks operating in Poland joined the
   stream of aid aimed at refugees almost immediately. The actions of
   banks are both direct and material - through the organization of
   fundraising and coordination of aid actions - as well as operational -
   facilitating the use of payment infrastructure and quick adaptation the
   scope of its services to the needs of people coming to Poland. In this
   regard it is essential providing refugees with access to basic payment
   services and improving distribution financial support intended for
   them, so that they can start their normal functioning in new realities.
   In the first days from the beginning of the conflict, Bank Gospodarstwa
   Krajowego (BGK) on the initiative of Polish Payments Standard - the
   operator of the BLIK system - launched a special account on behalf of
   the National Bank of Ukraine intended for the payment of funds to help
   Ukraine. Most of the banks that work with charity foundations created
   similar initiatives aimed at coordinating aid actions. Fundraising
   organized by our financial institutions has already collected tens of
   millions of zlotys in direct aid. Volunteers from the Polish banking
   sector are also directly involved in help for refugees.
   Moreover, in the area of settlements of transactions carried out in
   Poland cards issued by banks from Ukraine, some Polish acquirers
   resigned from dynamic currency conversion at ATMs and POS terminals so
   that Ukrainian customers do not incur higher currency conversion costs
   at the time of purchase.
   Thanks to the agreement between the National Bank of Poland and the
   NBU, Ukrainian citizens residing in Poland  can exchange hryvnia to
   Polish zloty at the official rounded rate, effective since 25th of
   march. The PKO BP is involved in this process and has created separate
   desks in its branches enabling this service. As part of the PKO BP and
   NBP program, 13 thousand Ukrainians exchanged the hryvnia into zlotys
   within first 3 days. The exchange rate set for this operation by the
   NBU is 0.14 zlotys per hryvnia. None of the participants of the
   operation charges any exchange fees. Adult citizens of Ukraine can
   exchange up to 10,000 hryvnia per person. The NBP will sell the
   purchased hryvnia to The National Bank of Ukraine at the same rate. The
   NBU will buy from the NBP up to 10 billion hryvnia in cash.
   In the area of services, the banks in Poland are constantly working to
   adjust their operations to the needs of refugees, trying to facilitate
   adaptation in this difficult period. Many banks introduced Ukrainian
   language versions of their websites and launched helpdesks in Ukrainian
   language while also translating product information. In most cases,
   they were introduced facilitating the opening of accounts. Banks
   resigned from fees for servicing accounts, as well as from fees for
   issue and maintenance of cards or for withdrawals from ATMs. There are
   no commissions charged on foreign transfers bound for Ukraine.
   Banks also act as an intermediary in the distribution of funds intended
   for refugees, including encouraging the use of electronic banking
   services, mobile applications and – after obtaining a PESEL number
   beforehand - enabling the creation of a trusted profile, which gives an
   access to aid funds, both from domestic sources, i.e. 500+, EU and
   those transferred by other countries, such as the USA or Canada.
   In the area of services, there are also activities aimed at
   standardizing the package intended for customers from Ukraine forced to
   flee the war as well as more extensive educational and information
   activities, in particular in the field of cybersecurity rules.
   However, the verification of the identity of refugees remains a key
   challenge. Provisions for counteracting money laundering and terrorist
   financing are very strict, a the present situation does not exempt
   financial institutions from complying with them, as it is about
   protecting them only the clients themselves, but also the financial
   security of the country. In the case of people with an identity
   document, i.e. a passport or internal Ukrainian identity card, opening
   an account shouldn’t be a problem. It is much more of a challenge while
   the service by banks of people who arrived without documents or their
   identity cards are present badly damaged. The Polish Bank Association
   is in contact with the relevant national institutions on this specific
   matter, but also with the Ukrainian authorities to properly identify
   these people.
   The situation of people who had to return to Ukraine from Poland, even
   in connection with a summons to military service. In many of the tens
   of thousands of such cases, these people they had a bank account in a
   Polish financial institution, a loan or a deposit to which they did not
   they gave authorization to even the immediate family. Banking sector in
   agreement with the supervisory authorities will do everything to keep
   the problems of the families of Ukrainian bank account owners resolved
   as soon as possible.
   Selected actions of banks in the face of the migration crisis and the
   war in Ukraine:
   Selected activities for bank employees:
     * Persons previously employed in Ukraine in a subsidiary bank are
       employed by the head office abroad. Employment in Poland is
       associated with challenges in the field of tax matters, ZUS, etc.
       These people often work in Poland, but their wages and other
       benefits are paid by headquarters.
     * For these people, accommodation was found, free accounts were set
       up, and a cash package was paid out. These people were covered by
       medical care. The families of bank employees were pulled from
       behind border and received the same financial and medical aid.
     * The right to additional paid days off for employees from Ukraine
       was created.
     * The phone limits for domestic and Ukrainian calls have also been
       increased to 500 minutes.
     * Psychological help is provided for employees and their families
       (how to talk to children about war) - webinars and helplines.
     * Legal aid was provided.
     * Assistance in organizing and financing Polish language learning
     * Support is also given to contractors and contractors of banks.
     * Managers were supported so that they could assist in the best
       possible way employees.
     * An intranet dedicated to communication about the needs of people
       from Ukraine was established.
     * There are some difficulties in employing people from Ukraine,
       because even programmers do not always speak good English.
     * Individuals from Ukraine are employed in bank branches for
       facilitation purposes service of Ukrainians by banks.

   Selected actions to alleviate the migration crisis:
     * Additional days are used for volunteering, including going to
       Ukraine.
     * A fundraiser is underway using the funds of employees and banks
       transferred both to specific institutions and organizations in
       Ukraine and in Poland and to international organizations.
     * Foundations established by banks are involved.
     * Transport of people and children from the border, but also abroad.
     * Providing company cars to employees who decide to bring people from
       the border.
     * Helping people find their place on the labor market in Poland.
       Learning Polish for refugees.
     * The foundations cooperate with Ukrainians from Dniepro and Mariupol
       in the collection of food, water.
     * In Poland, foundations help children brought from orphanages in
       Ukraine.
     * BGK coordinates the management of volunteering in The Torwar Arena.
     * mBank used its old headquarters as premises for Ukrainians, a
       school was also created there and a common room.

   More information: [email protected]
     __________________________________________________________________

Communique of the Polish Bank Association on aid measures taken by banks in
connection with the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.

   The English version is for information purposes only. Official
   Communiqué document drawn up in Polish.

   This Communication is submitted by banks in the face of the threat of
   spreading the COVID-19 pandemic, which may have today unpredictable
   effects on the financial situation of borrowers - bank clients.
   This Communication indicates:
     * recognition by banks as desirable for them to take urgent
       appropriate and adequate measures to address difficulties in
       repayment of liabilities to banks which, due to the COVID-19, may
       be borne by borrowers;
     * assuring clients that the actions taken by banks are aimed at
       introducing as simplified and deformalized assistance measures as
       possible for natural and legal persons who are borrowers and in
       financial difficulties due to the COVID-19;

   Considering the above, the banks will take the following actions
   towards clients in relation to the COVID-19.
    1. Banks will facilitate in the most simplified way - to the extent
       permitted by the provisions of the current law – postponement
       (suspension) of repayment of principal and interest installments or
       capital installments for a period of up to 3 months and automatic
       extension by the same period of the total loan repayment period
       provided extension of the period of validity of loan collateral.
       The facilitations are to relate to housing loans, consumer loans
       for individual clients, loans to entrepreneurs and will include on
       quick consideration of the applications of those clients who
       justify the need to postpone (suspend) their loan due to their
       financial situation caused by the COVID-19.
    2. The banks will provide their assistance to all entrepreneurs who
       had creditworthiness at the end of 2019, who were affected by the
       effects of the COVID-19 and who are due to renew existing financing
       in the coming months, in the form of renewal of financing for a
       period of up to 6 months at the request of the client.
    3. Banks that have a leasing company in their capital group will take
       action to apply postponement of repayment of leasing installments
       due from lessees on the same basis as applied by the bank in
       relation to postponed loan repayment.
    4. Banks that have a factoring company in their capital group will
       take action to apply postponement of repayments due from customers
       on a parallel basis to the one applied by the bank in relation to
       postponed loan repayment.
    5. Banks will not charge fees or commissions for the acceptance and
       consideration of applications for suspension of repayment of
       principal and interest installments or principal installments.
       Banks will enable submission of these applications in a less
       formalized manner, i.e. without the need to submit additional
       documents and certificates confirming in detail the current
       financial and economic situation. Banks will provide the
       opportunity to submit these applications also via e-mail,
       electronic banking or telephone according to the forms of
       communication provided for in the agreement with the bank. Banks
       will allow the submission of the above mentioned applications in a
       remote form even if it was not included in the contract with the
       bank, provided that the customer can be identified.
    6. Banks are ready to launch the process of facilitating access to
       short-term credit to entrepreneurs to stabilize the financial
       standing of a client who has been affected by the effects of the
       COVID-19. Banks are waiting for the quick completion of work
       initiated in recent days by state authorities and government
       agencies, which will make possible to offer such assistance. The
       next communication will provide details on how to facilitate an
       access to short-term loans.
    7. Banks will take part in works that will allow to increase the
       maximum amount of contactless payments to PLN 100 in a short time.
    8. The banks, in cooperation with the Cashless Poland Foundation, will
       take steps to install additional tens of thousands of POS devices
       in places where payment transactions are carried out.

   Banks declare that the provisions of this Communication will be
   immediately implemented and applied by the banks.
   At the same time, the banks call on state authorities to take urgent
   measures to mitigate the economic effects of the COVID -19 in Poland
   for entrepreneurs and to ensure the stability of the financial system.
   More information: [email protected]

The statutory tasks of the Association include:

     * Representing  and protecting  common interests of member banks,
       inter alia with respect to legal regulations related to banking;
     * Delegating representatives to participate in the work of banking
       operations advisory and evaluating  bodies;
     * Participating in legislative work of  legislatory commissions of
       the Sejm (the Parliament lower chamber) and the Senate;
     * Cooperating with the National Bank of Poland, the government and
       the competent ministries in the area of operation of legal
       regulations applicable to the Polish banking system;
     * Organizing the exchange of information between banks;
     * Promoting of the banking sector and financial services;
     * Constructing of the inter-bank infrastructure;
     * Supporting the standardization of banking products and services;
     * Disseminating of knowledge in the area of banking;
     * Conducting conciliatory proceedings and amicable judicature for
       banks;
     * Promoting  of good banking practice rules;
     * Supporting professional education;
     * Co-ordinating of training programmes for banking staff.

   (BUTTON)

Banking infrastructure institutions founded on initiative of and in
cooperation with the Polish Bank Association:

   National Clearing Chamber -KIR SA,
   Banking Telecom Company “Telbank” (currently Exatel);

   Credit Information Bureau -BIK SA  (www.bik.pl);
   CERA Central European Rating Agency (currently Fitch Polska SA);
   the Polish Financial Exchange (currently part of CeTO);
   the Centre of Banking Law and Information (CPBiI );
   and the Warsaw Banking Institute Foundation.
   The Association is also a shareholder of First Data Polska SA (formerly
   Polcard SA) and  the International School of Banking and Finance in
   Katowice.
   (BUTTON)

   Within the Association there are  numerous consultative committees,
   councils,  task forces and other bodies.  Their objective is to
   develop and issue opinions and positions in matters determining the
   correct operation of the Polish banking system.

Major bodies operating within The Polish Bank Association:

   Supervisory Regulations Advisory Committee;
   Public Relations Council ;

   Banking Security Committee ;
   Accounting and Taxation Committee ;
   Banking Staff and Training Committee;
   Polish Banking Qualification Standards Committee ;
   Financial Market Instruments Standards Committee ;
   Payment System Committee ;
   Technical Committee No. 271 for Banking and Banking Financial Services
   ;
   Depository Banks Council ;
   Banking Cards Issuers Council ;
   Funds Management Council ;
   Polish Committee of SWIFT Users ;
   Court of Arbitration;
   Banking  Ethics Commission;
   Housing Finance Committee
   Acquirers Committee
   Commercial Papers Council
   Electronic Banking Council
   Banking Law Council
   Banking Technology Forum

   Representatives of the Association participate in work of the Bank
   Guarantee Fund Council.
   (BUTTON)

   The Association of Polish Banks is a member of the European Banking
   Federation (www.ebf-fbe.eu) /since 1992/, the ICC
   Poland www.iccpolska.pl /since 2000/, the International Association of
   Banking Security / since1997/ and the European Payments
   Council (www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu) /since 2002/.

   Awards

   The Polish Banks Association is a founder of the prestigious
   journalistic Marian Krzak award intended for journalists and publicists
   dealing with the banking issues, and a co-founder of the Marian Kanton
   award for the best Master and Doctoral thesis in banking, with
   particular consideration of inter-bank settlements.

   In 2000 and 2003, the Association was granted the Alice Award for all
   its activities, for establishing the institution of the Banking
   Ombudsman, and for the Campaign for Direct Debit. The ZBP  has also
   received the “European Pearl” award for the institutional input in the
   promotion of the European idea in Poland, and in particular for the
   creation of the Polish banking infrastructure.

   The Banker’s Club in Warsaw (www.klubbankowca.pl) is managed by the
   Association.

Publications

   The changes of social, economic, political and technological nature
   that we are currently observing in numerous countries are taking place
   at a very fast pace. Unfortunately, the contemporary world is rocked by
   a number of clashes and tensions of economic and territorial character.
   Confl icts and disputes of a purely political variety are observed as
   well, with all of them exerting a highly negative impact on
   international cooperation, security and global economic order. With all
   those circumstances taken into consideration, forecasting the scenarios
   based on which individual countries will be developing becomes a very
   diffi cult task that requires a number of processes of both
   intra-continental and global nature to be taken into account.
   The “Poland and Europe - Challenges and Limitations” report should be
   treated as an introduction and invitation to a broader discussion
   concerned with topics that are of great significance from the point of
   view of Polish citizens and the national economy. These topics are
   related to the much needed increase in the capacity of the Polish banks
   and of other related institutions to participate in the implementation
   of national and regional development programs, with the security of
   deposits and the stability of fi nancial institutions that play such an
   important role in market economy taken into consideration as well.
   Image
   Download file Poland and Europe - Challenges and Limitations -
   September 2019

   logo alt
   Tekst podpisu - alt

ZBP

   ul. Z. Herberta 8
   00-380 Warszawa
   tel. (0-22) 48 68 180
   fax. (0-22) 48 68 100
     * Contact
     * General information

Client Service

   ul. Kruczkowskiego 8
   00-380 Warszawa
   tel.22 486 84 22 / 22 340 68 41

   Copyright © 2019 Związek Banków Polskich. All rights reserved. Created
   by Infinity Group. Powered by Kentico.

   cookie icon

   The zbp.pl website administered by the Polish Bank Association in
   Warsaw uses cookies for proper operation.
   (BUTTON) Ok, I understand
